^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Changelog for the ros2_utils_tool
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

0.13.0 (2025-07-31)
-------------------
**New:**

* A feature to extract tf2 messages out of a ROS bag file to json.
* TF2 support for the dummy bag tool. Additionally, this tool can now write up to five topics into a bag file!
* AVI support for the bag to video and video to bag tool.
* UI - A new widget shown if disk space is low for every tool generating data, including a new warning messagebox. The messagebox can be disabled in a new option.
* UI - Tooltips for the starting widget tool buttons.
* CLI - A flag "-s" or "--suppress" to execute a tool without showing any warnings.

**Changed/Improved:**

* CLI - For y/n questions, just pressing Enter now automatically confirms.
* CLI - Changed the '-s' flag for scaling published images or videos to '-sc'.
* UI - The bag info tool now displays the bag size in GiB instead of GB.

**Fixed:**

* Deprecation warnings when compiling with Kilted.
* UI - Topics added in the Dummy Bag Widget were inserted into the wrong row.

**Other:**

* Added a Changelog.rst.

0.12.0 (2025-05-26)
-------------------
**New:**

* The merge bags tool now has an option to delete the input bag files.

**Changed/Improved:**

* UI - The add and remove topic buttons for the dummy and record bag tool have been rearranged.
* CLI - The optional parameters "-k" and "--keep" for the compression and decompression tools have been replaced with "-d" and "--delete". Per default, the input file is now kept and not deleted.
* Optimization for the conversion tools, resulting in possible performance gains.
* Framerate stability improvements for the publishing tools.

**Fixed:**

* Possible wrong ordering of bag messages for the pcds to bag tool.
* UI - A possible crash on exit using Jazzy, Kilted or Rolling.
* UI - Icons not updating if the system theme changed while the app was running.
* UI - Possible wrong progress bar message count when the edit bag tool was executed.
* UI - Edit bag widget rendering errors.
* UI - Dummy bag topics were sometimes added into a wrong row.
* CLI - The message 'Merging bags' showing twice when calling the merge bags tool.

**Infrastructure:**

* Support for kilted and rolling.

0.11.0 (2025-04-15)
-------------------
**New:**

* UI - A tool to record bag files.
* UI - A tool to display topic and service information at once. For topics, also the publisher and subscriber info is shown.
* UI - The bag info tool now shows additional compression data, the start time and storage identifier.
* UI - An option to skip asking if an already existent target file should be overwritten.
* UI - Minor adjustments for the compress bag tool and progress widget.
* A rate parameter for the dummy bag tool.

**Changed/Improved:**

* UI - Reformatted some bag info tool data to be more understandable.
* UI - Replaced the processing icon with more indiviualized icons.
* CLI - The message count is now optional for the dummy bag tool (default value is 100).

**Fixed:**

* Incorrect timestamps for the dummy bag, pcd to bag and video to bag tool.
* UI - Some ok shortcuts were not working properly.
* UI - Messages in the edit bag tool were sometimes wrongly cropped if manual values were specified.
* CLI - Possible crashes when using the dummy bag tool.

0.10.0 (2025-03-26)
-------------------
**New:**

* Tools to compress and decompress a bag file.
* UI - An option to set the number of threads allowed for running the application.

**Changed/Improved:**

* Improved some tooltips and CLI help texts.
* Smaller performance improvements for the merge bags tool.
* UI - Generalized the hardware acceleration option and moved it to the settings dialog.
* UI - "Show advanced options" is now remembered if the application is closed.

**Fixed:**

* Crashes when using the merge bags tool.
* CLI - Possible multiple progress bars when using the dummy bag or merge bags tool.
* UI - Topics in the merge bag tool were sometimes stored with false selected values when (un)selected.

**Infrastructure:**

* Lower compile times due to CMake restructurements and improved dependency management.

0.9.0 (2025-02-27)
------------------
**New:**

* Added tools for extracting pcd files out of a bag point cloud topic and writing pcd files back to a bag.
* The dummy bag tool now also can generate randomized point clouds. Additionally, the maximum number of allowed dummy bag topics has been increased to four.
* CLI - Added an error message for unrecognized parameters.
* UI - A setting for a predefined topic name for the publishing and video to bag tool.

**Changed/Improved:**

* UI - Renamed some tools to keep names more consistent.

**Fixed:**

* Broken path names for files generated by the bag to images tool.
* Minor color offsets in the dummy bag tool.
* CLI - The video to bag tool not recognizing custom rates.

**Infrastructure:**

* Added unit tests for all main tool threads.

0.8.0 (2025-02-17)
------------------
**New:**

* A feature to merge two ROS bags into one bag, including a full topic selection for both bags.
* Published videos and image sequences can now be scaled.
* UI - Feature to update the target timestamps for the edit bag tool.
* UI - The topic type is now shown in the edit bag tool.

**Changed/Improved:**

* Images written from the Dummy Bag Tool now lerp from blue to red instead of using only a blue mat.
* CLI - Reformatted progress strings, the progress percentage is now also shown.
* CLI - Switched the command line argument for red and blue color value exchange from "-s/--switch" to "-e/--exchange".
* UI - The edit bag tool will now detect duplicate topic names.

**Fixed:**

* Frame offsets when publishing a video or image sequence.
* Some tools asking for every topic not meeting ROS2 topic naming standards if a user should continue.
* UI - Possible crash when pressing Cancel while the main tool operation is performed.
* UI - Further crashes when the edit bag main thread was started.

**Infrastructure:**

* Added dependencies to package.xml to simplify ROS dep installation. (Contributor: Iván López Broceño)

0.7.2 (2025-02-07)
------------------
**Fixed:**

* UI - Some alignment issues with the Edit Bag Widget after it was closed.

**Internal:**

* Minor refactoring and cleanup.

0.7.1 (2025-01-24)
------------------
**Changed/Improved:**

* UI - Added an additional label informing of a required different target file for the editing bag tool.

**Fixed:**

* UI - Crashes when handling invalid bag files.
* UI - A rare crash when the edit bag tool used equal source and target file paths.
* UI - A rare crash when the main edit bag thread was started.
* UI - Edit bag tool not remembering the source file deletion checkbox state.
* UI - Edit bag tool did sometimes not delete the source file even though it was specified.
* UI - Fixed publishing tools ok button being disabled after the source file input dialog was preemptively cancelled.

0.7.0 (2025-01-30)
------------------
**New:**

* A function to publish a video or images in a directory as ROS images messages!
* A function to switch red and blue values for the bag to video, video to bag and bag to images tool (also included in the publishing tool).
* UI - Option to delete the source bag for the edit bag tool after saving the edited bag

**Changed/Improved:**

* Progress visualization for both UI and CLI functionalities.
* If images are written using the bag to images tool, leading zeroes are now applied.
* UI - Changed the button ordering in the starting window.
* UI - Spacing for the bag info tool.
* CLI - Switched topic order and name input parameters for the dummy bag tool.
* CLI - Made the help texts a bit more visually appealing.

**Fixed:**

* A possible crash when cancelling the bag to images tool.

0.6.2 (2025-01-28)
------------------
**Changed/Improved:**

* UI - Reduced CPU usage.

**Fixed:**

* Broken data output if the tools were cancelled via console aborting (SIGINT).
* Dummy bag tool not quitting even if Ctrl+C or Cancel was pressed.

0.6.1 (2025-01-24)
------------------
**Fixed:**

* Jumpy/laggy image sequences in ROS bags written from video.
* UI - Crashed when an already used input bag file was deleted and the edit bag file tool was opened again.

0.6.0 (2025-01-22)
------------------
**New:**

* UI - A feature to edit a bag file, allowing to remove and rename topics and to change the message count. IMPORTANT: Right now, this creates a new bag file!
* UI - Added an option to disable warnings for ROS2 naming conventions.

**Changed/Improved:**

* Writing images and dummy bag topics is now multithreaded for a potential massive speedup.
* Included a link providing more details for ROS2 topic naming conventions for errors if an invalid topic name is entered.
* Naming topics does not require ROS2 naming convention anymore, but is still hinted.
* CLI - All tools will now ask to overwrite if the target directories already exist.
* CLI - Improved progress bar displaying.
* CLI - Made some more input parameters optional for the bag to images, bag to video and video to bag tools.

**Fixed:**

* UI - Bag info tool crashing when a directory containing no bag files was entered.
* CLI - Bag to Images tool giving a false hint if an invalid quality value was entered.
* CLI - Zero percent progress was displayed incorrectly.
* Crash when the dummy bag tool started to write to an already existing bag file.

**Additional:**

* Various refactoring and restructuring.

0.5.0 (2024-11-21)
------------------
**New:**

* Bag-to-Images: BMP support
* Bag-to-Video: Lossless video option (mkv only)

**Changed:**

* Video-to-Bag: FPS are set to input video's fps if no rate is specified
* Video-to-Bag: Removed broken serialization format option
* UI - Bag-to-Image: Removed enabling of checkboxes for png

**Fixes:**

* CLI - Bag-to-Images tool did not start when no extra flags were specified
* CLI - Dummy bag tool was cancelled if three full topics were specified
* UI - A number of input widget parameters were not stored properly when edited.
* UI - Crash when colorless images were selected/unselected in Bag-to-Image tool for bmp format

**Other:**

* ReadMe adjustments
* Added EUPLv1.2 license

0.4.0 (2024-11-04)
------------------
**New:**

* Advanced Options for the Bag-To-Video, Video-To-Bag and Bag-To-Images feature.
* UI - Added an option to save parameters for the next time the application is started.
* UI - If a path is added for the input of the bag-to-image-, vid-to-bag- and bag-to-vid-feature, the output line edit will be filled automatically with a prechosen file path.

**Changed:**

* CLI - Handling of parameters for the Bag-To-Video, Video-To-Bag and Bag-To-Images feature.
* UI - Smaller design changes for the bag info widget.

**Fixes:**

* UI - BagInfo-Widget having the wrong icon.
* UI - BagInfo-Widget line edit was not set when a bag file was selected.

**Other:**

* Refactoring and optimization.
* Upgraded C++ standard to C++20.

0.3.0 (2024-09-25)
------------------
**New:**

* Feature to create a dummy ROS bag, containing either String, Integer or Image messages.
* (UI only) Feature to show information about a ROS bag.
* Support for ROS Jazzy.

**Fixes:**

* Misleading file dialog titles for the config widgets.

**Other:**

* Font adjustments for buttons.
* Various cleanups and refactoring.

0.2.0 (2024-09-10)
------------------
**New:**

* ROSBag to Images feature
* Parameters are now saved inside the configuration widgets if they are cancelled or an encoding/bag-writing has started

**Fixes:**

* Crashes when opening dirs which did not contain bag files
* Cleared line edits for bag file directories if the file dialogs were returned without selecting anything
* Errors when handling and encoding videos our of ROSBags with multiple video topics

**Other:**

* Refactoring and CMake restructuring

0.1.0 (2024-08-07)
------------------
Initial version, contains:

* Bag to Video feature (UI/CLI)
* Video to Bag feature (UI/CLI)
